Data Notes
Would be nice to put these schools on a map... browser
Compare percent of pre-schools / feeders?
All proficiency things have a grade code of 10... but doesn't seem to be a grade.. otherwise stops at 8

4 categories of proficiency, expressed as a count, but can also be expressed as a perecentage. Some schools, however have very low student counts... maybe different category? Need to know how many in each count, or threshold for students that should count

well below
approaching
meets
exceeds

summary of meets/exceeds
NbrAllProf is sum of 4 cats. 
3 subjects. Looking at each year... progress?

number of students (not proficient -- bubble size, then percentage)
Could also have a distributional plot on the left side and then have the comparison schools slide out to show change over time. Or 3 side by side distributions to show change over time. Highlight a school will highlight their 3

Can sort schools based on which item is hovered over.
percentage and size can show trend in size vs proficiency

teacher data, super different between 2011/2012 and 2013
before: only had total periods and periods not taught by highly qualified teacher

basic, number of students? Student to teacher ratio? in grade?
students in school students in grade?


Data Format Notes
school_id is unique identifier, found in school_info.csv
Matches up with SchCode in other data sets


STRIVE
Strive Hawaii has a "school type" that could be the highest level classification
some proficiency info in strive too. percentage?

some things for 2010-2011 and some for 2011-2012
16 month college enrollment date


Other thoughts
Can we include pictures of each school? School logos?


8/15/2014 - Meting with Dave


Schools by area (island)
how do we help the person moving from milwaukee exclude Maui
I know my neighborhood is called this (zip code - post office has neighborhood mapping)
Complex is a K-12 feeder pattern
Complex has 1 high school

What will your outcomes be entering into this high school feeder pattern
different weights to the strive components


focus school - some miniums. Some points, but not 
ranking puts them into an order - but may not be the most productive way to think about the schools

How is my school doing relative to other schools like it
How does this school compare to other schools in the complex, complex area ... then the state
near work - geographic exemption because I work there. Want to be able to pick that.


p20
percentage of kids that require remediation
AP course credit


Staff
count of ssn - not necessarily teachers
FTE - also not necessarily teacher

Teaching force Stability
Fully Licensed
HQT
Staff 5 years
Average Term

High Needs - learning english, ELL; Free and reduced price lunch, economically disadvantaged families; students with disabilities

students should be counted one time, equal weight

plot gaps for high needs and non high needs (line)

generally 4 years. See how an indicator changes over time






List of visualizations for tool
- "Complex" Level family


- #students
- #teachers
- #student to teacher ratio
- proficiency distributions (%) with count of students tested (colored for more or less than x percent)
- College going rate (can show for all feeder complex. Maybe show all schools in a path?) - size of class
- Licensed, provisional, emergency credit breakdown
- periods taught by HQV vs not taught

- Average term
- Percent of teachers 5 years

- Strive pieces
-- High needs proficiency vs non high needs proficiency
-- proficiency percentage (all school?)
-- Math/Reading SGP (red/great around 45-55)
-- absentee vs college
-- strive step


Teachers to students scatter plot
- by grade
- by complex?
- by test scores?

proficiency distribution small multiples
- sort geographically
- sort alphabetically
- sort by total proficiency
- sort by grade











